wire up static mode converter and initial migration guide (#5329)
grafana/agent: docs/sources/flow/getting-started/migrating-from-static.md

---
aliases:
- /docs/grafana-cloud/agent/flow/getting-started/migrating-from-static/
- /docs/grafana-cloud/monitor-infrastructure/agent/flow/getting-started/migrating-from-static/
- /docs/grafana-cloud/monitor-infrastructure/integrations/agent/flow/getting-started/migrating-from-static/
canonical: https://grafana.com/docs/agent/latest/flow/getting-started/migrating-from-static/
description: Learn how to migrate your configuration from Grafana Agent Static Mode to Grafana Agent Flow Mode
  Flow Mode
menuTitle: Migrate from Grafana Agent Static Mode
title: Migrate from Grafana Agent Static to Grafana Agent Flow Mode
weight: 340
---

# Migrate from Grafana Agent Static to Grafana Agent Flow Mode

> The built-in Grafana Agent convert command can migrate your [Static][]

Author: There a lot of places I say [Static] or Grafana Agent Static Mode or variances. Please feel free to correct these to what they should be in each case.

---
aliases:
- /docs/grafana-cloud/agent/flow/getting-started/migrating-from-static/
- /docs/grafana-cloud/monitor-infrastructure/agent/flow/getting-started/migrating-from-static/
- /docs/grafana-cloud/monitor-infrastructure/integrations/agent/flow/getting-started/migrating-from-static/
canonical: https://grafana.com/docs/agent/latest/flow/getting-started/migrating-from-static/
description: Learn how to migrate your configuration from Grafana Agent Static mode to Flow mode

> menuTitle: Migrate from Static to Flow mode

Reviewer: ```suggestion
menuTitle: Migrate from Static mode to Flow mode
```

title: Migrate Grafana Agent from Static mode to Flow mode
weight: 340
---

> # Migrate from Grafana Agent Static to Grafana Agent Flow Mode

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Migrate Grafana Agent from Static mode to Flow mode
```

The built-in Grafana Agent convert command can migrate your [Static][] mode
configuration to a Flow mode configuration.

This topic describes how to:

* Convert a Grafana Agent Static mode configuration to a Flow mode configuration.
* Run a Grafana Agent Static mode configuration natively using Grafana Agent Flow mode.

[Static]: {{< relref "../../static/_index.md" >}}

## Components used in this topic

* [prometheus.scrape][]
* [prometheus.remote_write][]
* [local.file_match][]
* [loki.process][]
* [loki.source.file][]
* [loki.write][]

[prometheus.scrape]: {{< relref "../reference/components/prometheus.scrape.md" >}}
[prometheus.remote_write]: {{< relref "../reference/components/prometheus.remote_write.md" >}}
[local.file_match]: {{< relref "../reference/components/local.file_match.md" >}}
[loki.process]: {{< relref "../reference/components/loki.process.md" >}}
[loki.source.file]: {{< relref "../reference/components/loki.source.file.md" >}}
[loki.write]: {{< relref "../reference/components/loki.write.md" >}}

## Before you begin

* You must have an existing Grafana Agent Static mode configuration.

> * You must be familiar with the concept of [Components][] in Grafana Agent Flow mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You must be familiar with the [Components][] concept in Grafana Agent Flow mode.
```

		__address__ = "localhost",
		__path__    = "/var/log/*.log",
		host        = "mylocalhost",
		job         = "varlogs",
	}]
}

loki.process "logs_varlogs_varlogs" {
	forward_to = [loki.write.logs_varlogs.receiver]

	stage.match {
		selector = "{filename=\"/var/log/*.log\"}"

		stage.drop {
			expression = "^[^0-9]{4}"
		}

		stage.regex {
			expression = "^(?P<timestamp>\\d{4}/\\d{2}/\\d{2} \\d{2}:\\d{2}:\\d{2}) \\[(?P<level>[[:alpha:]]+)\\] (?:\\d+)\\#(?:\\d+): \\*(?:\\d+) (?P<message>.+)$"
		}

		stage.pack {
			labels           = ["level"]
			ingest_timestamp = false
		}
	}
}

loki.source.file "logs_varlogs_varlogs" {
	targets    = local.file_match.logs_varlogs_varlogs.targets
	forward_to = [loki.process.logs_varlogs_varlogs.receiver]

	file_watch {
		min_poll_frequency = "1s"
		max_poll_frequency = "5s"
	}
}

loki.write "logs_varlogs" {
	endpoint {
		url = "https://USER_ID:API_KEY@logs-prod3.grafana.net/loki/api/v1/push"
	}
	external_labels = {}
}

```

## Limitations

Configuration conversion is done on a best-effort basis. The Agent will issue
warnings or errors where the conversion cannot be performed.

Once the configuration is converted, we recommend that you review

> the Flow mode configuration file created, and verify that it is correct

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the Flow mode configuration file, and verify that it is correct
```

---
aliases:
- /docs/grafana-cloud/agent/flow/getting-started/migrating-from-static/
- /docs/grafana-cloud/monitor-infrastructure/agent/flow/getting-started/migrating-from-static/
- /docs/grafana-cloud/monitor-infrastructure/integrations/agent/flow/getting-started/migrating-from-static/
canonical: https://grafana.com/docs/agent/latest/flow/getting-started/migrating-from-static/

> description: Learn how to migrate your configuration from Grafana Agent Static Mode to Grafana Agent Flow Mode
>   Flow Mode
> menuTitle: Migrate from Grafana Agent Static Mode
> title: Migrate from Grafana Agent Static to Grafana Agent Flow Mode

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Learn how to migrate your configuration from Grafana Agent Static mode to Flow mode
menuTitle: Migrate from Static to Flow mode
title: Migrate Grafana Agent from Static mode to Flow mode
```

weight: 340
---

# Migrate from Grafana Agent Static to Grafana Agent Flow Mode

> The built-in Grafana Agent convert command can migrate your [Static][]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The built-in Grafana Agent convert command can migrate your [Static][] mode
```

> configuration to a Grafana Agent flow configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
configuration to a Flow mode configuration.
```

This topic describes how to:

> * Convert a Grafana Agent Static configuration to a Flow Mode configuration.
> * Run a Grafana Agent Static configuration natively using Grafana Agent Flow Mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Convert a Grafana Agent Static mode configuration to a Flow mode configuration.
* Run a Grafana Agent Static mode configuration natively using Grafana Agent Flow mode.
```

[Static]: {{< relref "../../static/_index.md" >}}

## Components used in this topic

* [prometheus.scrape][]
* [prometheus.remote_write][]
* [local.file_match][]
* [loki.process][]
* [loki.source.file][]
* [loki.write][]

[prometheus.scrape]: {{< relref "../reference/components/prometheus.scrape.md" >}}
[prometheus.remote_write]: {{< relref "../reference/components/prometheus.remote_write.md" >}}
[local.file_match]: {{< relref "../reference/components/local.file_match.md" >}}
[loki.process]: {{< relref "../reference/components/loki.process.md" >}}
[loki.source.file]: {{< relref "../reference/components/loki.source.file.md" >}}
[loki.write]: {{< relref "../reference/components/loki.write.md" >}}

## Before you begin

> * You must have an existing Grafana Agent Static Mode configuration.
> * You must be familiar with the concept of [Components][] in Grafana Agent Flow
>   Mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You must have an existing Grafana Agent Static mode configuration.
* You must be familiar with the concept of [Components][] in Grafana Agent Flow mode.
```

[Components]: {{< relref "../concepts/components.md" >}}
[convert]: {{< relref "../reference/cli/convert.md" >}}
[run]: {{< relref "../reference/cli/run.md" >}}
[Start the agent]: {{< relref "../setup/start-agent.md" >}}
[Flow Debugging]: {{< relref "../monitoring/debugging.md" >}}
[debugging]: #debugging

> ## Convert a Static configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Convert a Static mode configuration
```

> To fully migrate from [Static] to Grafana Agent Flow Mode, you must convert
> your Grafana Agent Static Mode configuration into a Grafana Agent Flow Mode configuration.
> This conversion will enable you to take full advantage of the many additional
> features available in Grafana Agent Flow Mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To fully migrate Grafana Agent from [Static][] mode to Flow mode, you must convert
your Static mode configuration into a Flow mode configuration.
This conversion will enable you to take full advantage of the many additional
features available in Grafana Agent Flow mode.
```

> > In this task, we will use the [convert][] CLI command to output a flow
> > configuration from a Grafana Agent Static Mode configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> In this task, we will use the [convert][] CLI command to output a Flow mode
> configuration from a Static mode configuration.
```

1. Open a terminal window and run the following command:

    ```bash
    AGENT_MODE=flow; grafana-agent convert --source-format=static --output=OUTPUT_CONFIG_PATH INPUT_CONFIG_PATH
    ```

   Replace the following:

>     * `INPUT_CONFIG_PATH`: The full path to the [Static] configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * `INPUT_CONFIG_PATH`: The full path to the [Static][] configuration.
```

    * `OUTPUT_CONFIG_PATH`: The full path to output the flow configuration.

> 1. [Start the Agent][] in Flow Mode using the new flow configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. [Start the Agent][] in Flow mode using the new Flow mode configuration
```

   from `OUTPUT_CONFIG_PATH`:

### Debugging

> 1. If the convert command cannot convert a [Static] configuration, diagnostic

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. If the convert command cannot convert a [Static] mode configuration, diagnostic
```

>    information is sent to `stderr`. You can bypass any non-critical issues and
>    output the flow configuration using a best-effort conversion by including
>    the `--bypass-errors` flag.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   information is sent to `stderr`. You can use the `--bypass-errors` flag to 
   bypass any non-critical issues and output the Flow mode configuration 
   using a best-effort conversion.
```

>    {{% admonition type="caution" %}}If you bypass the errors, the behavior of the converted configuration may not match the original [Static] configuration. Make sure you fully test the converted configuration before using it in a production environment.{{% /admonition %}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   {{% admonition type="caution" %}}If you bypass the errors, the behavior of the converted configuration may not match the original [Static] mode configuration. Make sure you fully test the converted configuration before using it in a production environment.{{% /admonition %}}
```

    ```bash
    AGENT_MODE=flow; grafana-agent convert --source-format=static --bypass-errors --output=OUTPUT_CONFIG_PATH INPUT_CONFIG_PATH
    ```

> 1. You can also output a diagnostic report by including the `--report` flag.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. You can use the `--report` flag to output a diagnostic report.
```

    ```bash
    AGENT_MODE=flow; grafana-agent convert --source-format=static --report=OUTPUT_REPORT_PATH --output=OUTPUT_CONFIG_PATH INPUT_CONFIG_PATH
    ```

    * Replace `OUTPUT_REPORT_PATH` with the output path for the report.

   Using the [example](#example) Grafana Agent Static Mode configuration below, the diagnostic
   report provides the following information:

    ```plaintext
    (Error) global positions configuration is not supported - each Flow Mode's loki.source.file component has its own positions file in the component's data directory
    (Warning) server.log_level is not supported - Flow mode components may produce different logs
    (Warning) Please review your agent command line flags and ensure they are set in your Flow mode config file where necessary.
    ```

## Run a Promtail configuration

> If you’re not ready to completely switch to a flow configuration, you can run
> Grafana Agent using your existing Grafana Agent Static Mode configuration.
> The `--config.format=static` flag tells Grafana Agent to convert your [Static]
> configuration to Flow Mode and load it directly without saving the new
> configuration. This allows you to try Flow Mode without modifying your existing
> Grafana Agent Static Mode configuration infrastructure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you’re not ready to completely switch to a Flow mode configuration, you can run
Grafana Agent using your existing Grafana Agent Static mode configuration.
The `--config.format=static` flag tells Grafana Agent to convert your [Static] mode
configuration to Flow mode and load it directly without saving the new
configuration. This allows you to try Flow mode without modifying your existing
Grafana Agent Static mode configuration infrastructure.
```

> > In this task, we will use the [run][] CLI command to run Grafana Agent in Flow
> > Mode using a Grafana Agent Static Mode configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> In this task, we will use the [run][] CLI command to run Grafana Agent in Flow
> mode using a Static mode configuration.
```

> [Start the Agent][] in flow mode and include the command line flag
> `--config.format=static`. Your configuration file must be a valid [Static]
> configuration file rather than a Flow Mode configuration file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Start the Agent][] in Flow mode and include the command line flag
`--config.format=static`. Your configuration file must be a valid [Static]
mode configuration file.
```

### Debugging

1. You can follow the convert CLI command [debugging][] instructions to generate
   a diagnostic report.

1. Refer to the Grafana Agent [Flow Debugging][] for more information about

>    running Grafana Agent in Flow Mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   running Grafana Agent in Flow mode.
```

> 1. If your [Static] configuration cannot be converted and loaded directly into
>    Grafana Agent, diagnostic information is sent to `stderr`. You can bypass any
>    non-critical issues and start the Agent by including the
>    `--config.bypass-conversion-errors` flag in addition to
>    `--config.format=static`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. If your [Static] mode configuration cannot be converted and loaded directly into
    Grafana Agent, diagnostic information is sent to `stderr`. You can use the `
    --config.bypass-conversion-errors` flag with `--config.format=static` to bypass any
    non-critical issues and start the Agent.
```

>    {{% admonition type="caution" %}}If you bypass the errors, the behavior of the converted configuration may not match the original Grafana Agent Static Mode configuration. Do not use this flag in a production environment.{{%/admonition %}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   {{% admonition type="caution" %}}If you bypass the errors, the behavior of the converted configuration may not match the original Grafana Agent Static mode configuration. Do not use this flag in a production environment.{{%/admonition %}}
```

## Example

> This example demonstrates converting a [Static] configuration file to a Grafana
> Agent Flow Mode configuration file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example demonstrates converting a [Static] mode configuration file to a Flow mode configuration file.
```

> The following [Static] configuration file provides the input for the conversion:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following [Static] mode configuration file provides the input for the conversion:
```

      scrape_configs:
        - job_name: local-agent
          static_configs:
            - targets: ['127.0.0.1:12345']
              labels:
                cluster: 'localhost'
    
logs:
  global:
    file_watch_config:
      min_poll_frequency: 1s
      max_poll_frequency: 5s
  positions_directory: /var/lib/agent/data-agent
  configs:
    - name: varlogs
      scrape_configs:
        - job_name: varlogs
          static_configs:
            - targets:
              - localhost
              labels:
                job: varlogs
                host: mylocalhost
                __path__: /var/log/*.log
          pipeline_stages:
            - match:
                selector: '{filename="/var/log/*.log"}'
                stages:
                - drop:
                    expression: '^[^0-9]{4}'
                - regex:
                    expression: '^(?P<timestamp>\d{4}/\d{2}/\d{2} \d{2}:\d{2}:\d{2}) \[(?P<level>[[:alpha:]]+)\] (?:\d+)\#(?:\d+): \*(?:\d+) (?P<message>.+)$'
                - pack:
                    labels:
                      - level
      clients:
        - url: https://USER_ID:API_KEY@logs-prod3.grafana.net/loki/api/v1/push
```

> The convert command takes the YAML file as input and outputs a River file.

Reviewer: So far we don't explain River files... it's always referred to as a Flow mode configuration file. Do we want to keep using Flow mode configuration? Or define/link and use River?  

In this case I'd probably go with Flow mode configuration file (that is written in River... similar to how a Static mode file is written in YAML). 

Would it be useful to mention/link to the River description?

Author: I think a link here for River makes sense. I can add it to each of the 3 migration guides.

```bash
AGENT_MODE=flow; grafana-agent convert --source-format=static --output=OUTPUT_CONFIG_PATH INPUT_CONFIG_PATH
```

> The new Flow Mode configuration file looks like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The new Flow mode configuration file looks like this:
```

		__address__ = "localhost",
		__path__    = "/var/log/*.log",
		host        = "mylocalhost",
		job         = "varlogs",
	}]
}

loki.process "logs_varlogs_varlogs" {
	forward_to = [loki.write.logs_varlogs.receiver]

	stage.match {
		selector = "{filename=\"/var/log/*.log\"}"

		stage.drop {
			expression = "^[^0-9]{4}"
		}

		stage.regex {
			expression = "^(?P<timestamp>\\d{4}/\\d{2}/\\d{2} \\d{2}:\\d{2}:\\d{2}) \\[(?P<level>[[:alpha:]]+)\\] (?:\\d+)\\#(?:\\d+): \\*(?:\\d+) (?P<message>.+)$"
		}

		stage.pack {
			labels           = ["level"]
			ingest_timestamp = false
		}
	}
}

loki.source.file "logs_varlogs_varlogs" {
	targets    = local.file_match.logs_varlogs_varlogs.targets
	forward_to = [loki.process.logs_varlogs_varlogs.receiver]

	file_watch {
		min_poll_frequency = "1s"
		max_poll_frequency = "5s"
	}
}

loki.write "logs_varlogs" {
	endpoint {
		url = "https://USER_ID:API_KEY@logs-prod3.grafana.net/loki/api/v1/push"
	}
	external_labels = {}
}

```

## Limitations

Configuration conversion is done on a best-effort basis. The Agent will issue
warnings or errors where the conversion cannot be performed.

Once the configuration is converted, we recommend that you review

> the Flow Mode configuration file created, and verify that it is correct

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the Flow mode configuration file created, and verify that it is correct
```

before starting to use it in a production environment.

Furthermore, we recommend that you review the following checklist:

> * The following configuration options are not available for conversion to flow

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The following configuration options are not available for conversion to Flow
```

>   mode: [Integrations next], [Traces], and [Agent Management]. Any

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  mode: [Integrations next][], [Traces][], and [Agent Management][]. Any
```

>   additional unsupported features are returned as Error[s] during conversion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  additional unsupported features are returned as errors during conversion.
```

> * There is no gRPC server to configure for flow mode, so any non-default config
>   will show as unsupported during the conversion.
> * Check if you are using any extra command line arguments with Static Mode which
>   are not present in your config file. For example, `-server.http.address`.
> * Check if you are using any environment variables in your [Static] config.
>   These will be evaluated during conversion and you may want to replace them
>   with the Flow Standard library [env] function after conversion.
> * Review additional [Prometheus Limitations] for limitations specific to your
>   [Metrics] config.
> * Review additional [Promtail Limitations] for limitations specific to your
>   [Logs] config.
> * Note that the logs produced by the Agent will differ from those
>   produced by Grafana Agent Static Mode.
> * Note that the Agent exposes the [Grafana Agent Flow UI][].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* There is no gRPC server to configure for Flow mode, so any non-default config
  will show as unsupported during the conversion.
* Check if you are using any extra command line arguments with Static mode that
  are not present in your configuration file. For example, `-server.http.address`.
* Check if you are using any environment variables in your [Static] mode configuration.
  These will be evaluated during conversion and you may want to replace them
  with the Flow Standard library [env] function after conversion.
* Review additional [Prometheus Limitations] for limitations specific to your
  [Metrics] config.
* Review additional [Promtail Limitations] for limitations specific to your
  [Logs] config.
* The logs produced by Grafana Agent Flow mode will differ from those
  produced by Static mode.
* Grafana Agent exposes the [Grafana Agent Flow UI][].
```

Author: I'm not sure what happened on this one, maybe some conflicting commit suggestions?
